I noticed once again in the exam they talk about differences between Puppet Chef and sensible.
Now I have discussed this in the exam overview.
I'll explain it a big difference between answerable puppet and chef is answerable is Agent Lewis.
You don't have to run an agent on the road.
So if you've got a Cisco router if you want to use puppet or chef you have to run an agent which is
basically a piece of software that can talk to one of their servers.
So that's a huge disadvantage.
If you've got an old 37 50 switch in your lab at home or you want to use genius 3 as an example.
All you've got is a stage or talent.
But let's just assume SSA.
You don't want to run an agent or have to install an agent and have to run Linux commands on the rod
or switch just to be able to talk to it to configure it.
That's a disadvantage of both puppet and chef.
If you've got a server or you come from a server environment it's very easy to install a piece of software
on the server.
So if you've got a Linux server or you've got a Windows server you can just install a piece of software
on that server and that's fine.
So install an agent and then manage the server using this connection from the server from the management
station to the agent.
That's easy to do but you can't easily do that with Cisco.
IOW devices in a in classic IOW the monolithic old IOW you couldn't just install applications on a rod
or a switch.
Now since you have opened that up quite a lot now with XY so with the newest versions of Iowa's you
can drop down into Linux shell and I'll show you that in this course it's not required once again for
the CCMA exam but you can actually drop down into Linux and that's how you install an agent for puppet
as an example you have to go into Linux shell dropped on into the Linux Shell on Your rod or switch
to install the agent.
So basically you're running Linux on your on your router now you can't do that very easily on old Iris
systems.
So that's the advantage of sensible you're just using SSA basically to configure the device.
Now I have a love hate relationship with sensible.
I don't like sensible because every time they update sensible it breaks all my scripts accredited sensible
course and as soon as I release that sensible updated and it broke all my answerable scripts and the
students weren't very happy.
So I personally prefer Python.
Why.
Because python is easier to control.
There was a big change from Python two point seven to Python 3.
Python 3 is the de facto.
Now you must use Python 3 but I can control what happens.
Big Idea in programming is you as the developer control what goes on.
There is no external application that breaks everything and that's what I hate about sensible.
So personally I would study Python some guys would say you learn animal animals kind of like a halfway
step to Python so traditional network engineer go to animal and go to python.
Now a few years ago a lot of guys would say Python as is is bad because you can't scale very easily
and still has a lot of scalability stuff built into it.
And that was true as an example if you wanted to configure a hundred switches using Python.
It was a lot more difficult because Python would Alicia did some clever coding open one session and
go to the next device then to the next device.
So everything was done sequentially it was very very slow.
So you'd have to write code to do everything in parallel to speed up the scripts.
Basically that was an advantage of sensible that kind of stuff.
Cleverness was built into encircle from the beginning but that's no longer true.
Today we've got frameworks such as Narnia.
We've got pi 80 s also called Jeannie from Cisco.
Cisco has made it a lot easier with pi.
Yes.
So pi 80 s and Jeannie really make things a lot easier if you configuring devices it also gives you
scalability.
It hides some of the complexity makes your python scripts a lot simpler and so does Narnia.
So I would say that the advantage of using sensible has diminished compared to to Python.
A lot of new people to the programming world would struggle with Python so if Europe pure network person
you might struggle to get into python but let me tell you rather bite the bullet as they say do it as
soon as you can get over the hurdle of learning python because once you do it opens up a whole new world
to you rather than just being a use of an application that someone else has written you can control
what goes on.
So my recommendation is Learn Python once again as quickly as you can for the real world but for the
CCMA exam you don't need to learn python so you don't have to debug scripts that is covered in the definite
associate.
Okay so I've been talking quite a bit now but I wanted to give you the sort of summary of this section
some of the stuff that I haven't spoken about is overlays and underlies.
So I did talk about this in my exam overview but I'll explain it once again.
Here let me give me feedback.
I mean do you like me just talking to you as hopefully it's as if you're sitting next to me and we're
just having a conversation.